[Music]
have you ever wondered how things are
built within our bodies why our bodies
can regrow and repair themselves and how
we can pass on genes from one generation
to the next
yet none of our man-made objects have
these traits they're simply thrown away
when they break and they definitely
can't reproduce the answer lies in
something called self-assembly
self-assembly is a system where
unordered parts come together in an
organized structure completely on their
own this means that a pile of parts on
your desk should in theory be able to
move around on their own find one
another and build something useful this
seems impossible like transformers or
the Sandman but it's exactly how our
bodies are built how our immune system
works and why we can reproduce
self-assembly is the factory and copy
machines within our bodies that make
proteins fold and DNA replicate it's a
process that not only happens in the
biological and chemical world but is a
phenomenon that can be seen from magnets
to snowflakes robotics social networks
the formations of cities and galaxies to
name just a few in biology and chemistry
self-assembly is everywhere from atomic
interactions cellular replication to DNA
RNA and protein folding proteins are
like bicycle chains with sequences of
amino acid links they self assemble into
3d structures because of the interaction
between amino acids along the chain as
well as the relationship between the
chain in the environment these forces
make the flexible chain fold into a 3d
shape that governs the function and the
protein virus is on the other hand are
like soccer balls they're made up of a
series of subunits with specific shapes
those shapes have attraction to one
another so they fit together in precise
ways imagine you want to build a perfect
sphere it turns out that making a
precise sphere through traditional means
is actually quite difficult
alternatively you could try to self
assemble the sphere one way would be to
inflate the sphere like a bubble or a
balloon another option would be to
create many identical pieces that would
come together to make a perfect sphere
you could try to put the pieces together
one by one but it might take a long time
and you'd still have human errors
instead you could design a connection
between the components like magnets and
dump them into a container when you
shook the container all the parts would
find one another and
build a sphere for you self-assembly is
being used as a new design science and
engineering tool for making the next
generation of technologies easier to
build more adaptive and less reliant on
fossil fuels scientists are now making
molecular microchips for computers where
small molecular elements are given the
right conditions to form themselves into
organized pathways similarly we can now
use self-assembly as a way to make 3d
structures with DNA like capsules that
could deliver drugs inside the body
releasing them only if certain
conditions are met
soon self-assembly will be used for
larger applications where materials can
repair themselves water pipes can
reconfigure on-demand buildings can
adapt on their own to environment or
dynamic loading and space structures can
self assemble without humans imagine if
our factories were more like organisms
or brains and our construction sites
were like gardens that grow and adapt
independently the possibilities are
endless and it's now up to us to design
a better world through self-assembly
you